Extending use cases (#23)
temporalio/documentation-legacy: docs/use-cases-monitoring.md

---
id: use-cases-monitoring
title: Monitoring and Periodic Execution
sidebar_label: Monitoring
---

## Motivation

There is often a need for monitoring and periodic maintenance of IT systems on top of [infrastructure provisioning](./use-cases-provisioning). **Polling** is executing a regular action to check for a state change, for example:

- Pinging a host to make sure it's online and responsive.
- Once-per-minute health checks of a production deployment.
- Polling an API for a specific resource to become available.
- Triggering and executing periodic backups.
- Pushing configuration updates when they become available.
- Failing over in an active-passive setup when the primary instance becomes unhealthy.

> Monitoring is often an example of periodic execution of business logic, also known as a **distributed cron** engine.

Reviewer: It sort of seems like you're saying "monitoring === distributed cron" can you rephrase please?

Author: How about

> As monitoring is often an example of periodic execution of business logic, it can benefit from Temporal's **distributed cron** engine.

## Benefits of Temporal

> Temporal provides guaranteed execution, sophisticated error handling, flexible retry policies, and visibility into execution history for periodic workflow executions.

Reviewer: I think this is missing the practical side of things. I think a code example wouldn't hurt for this one (either manually implemented CRON using Temporal.sleep or the official cron mechanism). Not super strongly opinioned here.

Author: Expanded a little bit... Let's track code examples as a follow-up.

Scalability is another crucial advantage of using Temporal for periodic execution. Many use cases require periodic execution for a large number of entities. At Uber, some applications run recurring workflows for each customer. Imagine 100s of millions parallel cron jobs that don't require a separate batch processing framework.

> Temporal support for long-running activities and unlimited retries also makes it a good fit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Temporal support for long-running activities and unlimited retries also makes it a great fit for monitoring use cases.
```

## Example: Cluster Lifecycle Workflow

Imagine a system that manages a large number of compute clusters. It monitors that a cluster is up and running, its CPU and network utilization, run backups and software upgrades.

> You can model these operational activities as one indefinitely long workflow per cluster which exists anywhere from minutes to years, depending on the cluster lifetime. Each workflow would run periodic activities, react to user commands via signals, and coordinate multiple potentially conflicting operations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can model these operational activities as one indefinitely long workflow per cluster which can be alive anywhere from minutes to years, depending on the cluster lifetime. Each workflow would run periodic activities, react to user commands via signals, and coordinate multiple potentially conflicting operations.
```
